Task#2

What is Data Mart?

->It is smaller part of data warehouse.
->It stores specific type of data like only the data of the products sold in a particular year.
->It is subset of data warehouse.



How it differs from data warehouse?
->It is a database that stores data of an organization in the organized way.
->It stores all the data of an organization like sales data, employees data etc.


What is data lakehouse?

Data lakehouse compaired to data warehouse can:
->Video, audio and text file.
->Support data science and ML work load.
->Have support for both streaming and ELT.
->Work with many open source format.
->Data will generally reside in a data lake or blob stores.



What is data mesh?
->A hot topic in enterprise software, data mesh is a new approach to thinking about data based on a distributed architecture for data management. 
The idea is to make data more accessible and available to business users by directly connecting data owners, data producers, and data consumers. 
Data mesh aims to improve business outcomes of data-centric solutions as well as drive adoption of modern data architectures.




Difference between Data Lake and Data warehouse?

Data Lake:
1> Massive volumes of structured and unstructured data like ERP transactions and call logs can be stored cost affectively.

2> Data is available for use far faster by keeping it in a raw state.

3> A broader range of data can be analyzed in new ways to gain unexpected and previously unavailable insights.

Data Warehouse:
->Little or no data prep needed, making it far easier for analysts and business users to access and analyze this data.
->Accurate and complete data is available more quickly, so businesses can turn information into insight faster.
->Unified, harmonized data offers a single source of truth, building trust in data insights and decision making across business lines.



OLTP VS OLAP


The two terms look similar but refer to different kind of systems. Online Transaction Processing (OLTP) caputes, 
stores and processes data from transactions in real time.
Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) uses complex queries to analyze aggregated historiacl data from OLTP systems.



Task #3

Can a database be used as data warehouse?

A database can be used as a data warehouse, a dedicated data warehouse platform is generally a better choice if you need to perform complex queries and 
analysis on large volumes of data from multiple sources.



Key differences between structured and unstructured data:


Structured Data:

1) It is based on a relational database.
2) Structured data is less flexible and schema-dependent.
3) It is hard to scale database schema.
4) It is very robust.


Unstructured data:

1) It is based on character and binary data.
2) There is an absence of schema, so it is more flexible.
3) It is more scalable.
4) It is less robust.




Data engineer roles and responsibilities:

Here is the list of roles and responsibilities , data engineer are expected to perform:

1. Work on Data Architecture:
 They use a systematic approach to plan, create, and maintain data architectures while also keeping it aligned with business requirements.
2. Collect Data:
 Before initiating any work on the database, they have to obtain data from the right sources. After formulating a set of dataset processes, data engineers store
 optimized data.
3. Conduct Research:
 Data engineers conduct research in the industry to address any issues that can arise while trackling a business problem.
4. Improve Skills:
 Data engineers don't rely on theoritical database concepts alone. They must have the knowledge and prowess to work in any development environment regardless of their
 programming language.
5. Create models and identify patters:
 Data engineers use a descriptive data model for data aggregation to extract historical insights.
6. Automate Tasks:
 Data engineers dive into data and pinpoint tasks where manual participation can be eliminated with automation.
 
 